So, I open up the integrated scaly draw.
It's what you're at least going to use
in the meta interview. Um, I think it's
what you use in the OpenAI interview,
but I'm actually not sure. In any case,
they're all the same. Um,
the question I'm going to ask is
actually a popular one that's coming up
at Meta frequently. It's an interesting
one because it shows up in both product
design and system design interviews
pretty regularly. Um, and it also has a
lot of components that I think can be
used for some of the popular OpenAI
questions. So, that's why why I'm
choosing it. What I want you to do today
is that you are you can imagine yourself
working on Instagram. Okay? And you're
responsible for adding a new post type.
We're going to call it an auction post.
And what it is is it's supporting the
ability to auction off items on
Instagram.
And so to make this as specific as
possible, like you can take your I don't
know, one of the t-shirts that you have
back there in in your background and you
can sell it on Instagram. And so you can
imagine an auction post that says this
t-shirt. Uh and people who are viewing
it can make bids for your t-shirt. They
can make a bid for $5, the next person
six, seven, etc. You know how a general
bid and auction house works. Mhm. Um,
and then to start to make it simple, and
we might expand on this later, but we'll
say that auctions end just at a certain
time and day, at a certain date time.
So, at a certain date time, whoever has
the highest bid wins the auction and
thus wins your item. And now, you don't
need to worry at that point about
payments or about shipping or any of
that, but you should have some mechanism
to let the winner and to let the
auctioneer know the results of the
auction.
Mhm. So, I'll stop there. Kind of feel
free to format that into some nice
functional requirements and and be on
your way. And I'm going to start our
timer in the top right. We'll have 35
minutes. Okay. Totally. So, uh for this
Instagram auction post functionality,
um let me yeah try and and pin down the
core functional requirements here based
on the description.
So, um, first, uh, I think that, uh, a
user is going to need to be able to, um,
create an auction. First of all, create
an auction post. Um,
just to clarify, is a auction post just
going to, um, sell one, you know, item
uh, in one post? Good question. Yep. One
item. Okay. one item uh to be sold in an
auction post. Um
next up, um we are uh of course going to
want to allow other users to submit bids
on an auction.
Okay. Um
and
uh last or third I think we will need um
uh to determine
and notify
auction winner at the end of the
auction.
Um
I think that seems to be the core. Um, I
want to ask if
uh we need to worry about things like
having the auction appear on people's uh
Instagram feeds.
So, in terms of feed generation, we'll
say another team handles that. You
should probably have some endpoint to
like, you know, given an auction post
ID, be able to render or view that
auction post. Uh, but how it shows up on
the feed is not really your problem.
Good question.
Okay, got it. So, I'll just put that
below the line here. Um,
and yeah, just walking through this
again. Make a post. Um, submit bids.
Um, yeah, pick the winner. Um, this
seems like what would be core to the
system. Um, does this seem okay to you
before I move on to non-functional?
Looks great. Okay, thanks. So now let's
go through nonfunctional
requirements. So for the system um
all right. So, um
I think that um
um we
are definitely going to
need strong consistency at least in the
part uh of this system where
uh users are um submitting bids. So that
um you know we don't end up with
um you know two users who um submitted
the same amount. We won't probably want
to tie break by you know whoever got
their uh bid in first in the case of
equal bid and um yeah we definitely
don't want um any rights to be kind of
um uh trying to catch up. So, I'll just
note consistency
uh strong consistency for
um for bids.
Um next up, um
I think that
um it would be good to get a sense of
the general scale of the system. um uh
for scalability. Um would you be able to
give me a sense of um how many
like um auctions and you know um either
people or like bids we'll we'll be
having in the system. Yeah, we'll say
that there's like tens of millions of
auctions ongoing any given day.
Um, of course, the total scope of users
for something like Instagram is on the
order of billions, but most of those
users obviously won't be creating
auctions or participating in auctions.
We'll say around 10 million. In terms of
bidding, instead of giving you a
concrete number, I want to kind of point
towards an interesting observation,
which is that the overwhelming majority
of users aren't going to bid. Um, but
many are going to view. And this might
actually add to a functional requirement
for you, which is that I want you to
consider the experience of a user who's
viewing an item, whether they intend to
bid or not. Uh, they probably want to
see the bids coming in.
Okay? And this is particularly important
if you are going to be bidding because
you don't want to have to like be
refreshing your screen to see what is
the highest bid now so I can do
something bigger. Especially at the end,
you want to have some like live ticker
of the bids as they're coming in. And
then you can imagine like a Michael
Jordan jersey. It's popular in the
millions of dollars. Nobody's bidding on
that but three people. It's expensive.
Um but a lot of people are viewing it.
Excited to see what the the end kind of
top bid will be. Got it. Yeah. Thanks
for pointing that out. Um then I think
the functional side of what you were
talking about would be um users um can
uh view
um latest uh bid on an auction in real
time.
Uh and then
uh I think um non-functionally that
probably means that um we are going to
want um a very low latency for uh seeing
that latest updated bid amount. So
um
low latency
uh bid
uh updates. So, um I think you know we
probably want to keep it in the
threshold of um less than 500
milliseconds just so it um you know
feels um you know quite real time to the
people looking at the auction.
Okay. Um so um I think we
um yeah the system as a whole we want it
to be um scalable you know up to
um 10 million auctions a day. Um I think
um the implications of this um we can
probably calculate and and go over
within the system as we as we design it.
Um I'll also just note that what you
pointed out that um we're going to have
uh uh pretty high read volume.
Okay.
um and
bids. Um notifying the auction winner.
Um
I
um yeah, off the top of my head, I think
these are probably the uh main
non-functional requirements I'd focus on
first. Um I'll add more here if I think
of more later. Um and I think there are
you know other um probably other things
we can consider like um um the like
security fault tolerance deployment of
the system but uh which maybe we can
look at um but aren't super core here.
Sounds great. Let's do it. Okay great.
So uh moving on to kind of a high level
or before I step into the high level
design
um let me just uh lay out some of the
core entities for the system just uh
brief outline.
So um yeah the things that we're going
to persist and um and uh transfer um
throughout our system. So, well, of
course, it's probably going to be uh a
user. Um, our auction entity is is uh
going to be core here. Um, we're going
to want uh the concept of a bid as well.
And
um
yeah, I think um this might be a good
starting point just as an outline. I'll
add to the um you know attributes or
columns of of these as we go. Perfect.
And for
um again for a a high level outline of
of the API of this system
um
mapping to our functional requirements
first I think we'll uh want a post
request to create an to create an
auction. So
um let's say yep just post to the sorry
auction endpoint
um you know it will return the created
object um uh for
uh this route and all the other API
routes um we're going to uh have
authorization through the header the JWT
or a session token
um And
in the body,
um, what we'll want to submit,
um, to make an auction,
um, is, uh, yeah, the auction
item details. So, stuff like images,
price, etc. So, I'll just add that into
our entries.
Um yeah, we want to submit an auction
item. And what we talked about earlier
was that an auction is um going to have
a um end date time uh to be resolved. So
we'll want to put that in here as well.
Um so
um yeah, end date of the auction.
Um
hm. Yeah. Uh I think um that's
um the core of what we need to make an
auction. Uh next up, we want to
submit bids on an auction. So
um again, um another post request here.
Um
and we'll probably want
um you know to post to a particular
um yeah auction. So we're going to have
the um auction ID here. Or alternatively
actually we could just um have like a
bid endpoint and then just have the
auction ID here in the body. Um
yep. and it'll just give you the new bid
object. Um,
so we want to say what auction is this
for and
um what is our bid amount.
Trying to think if there's anything else
we need. Um, yeah, upon first thought
probably just Yeah, here's the auction.
I want to bid this much. Um and again
we'll be able to infer the user from the
header over here. Um
determining the auction winner the end
of the auction I think um we'll uh
probably do that somewhere within the
internals of our system. So I won't
outline it and point it for it right
now. And then for
viewing bids on an auction,
um
I uh am just going to start out with um
a a get endpoint for the option. Um but
I think this one might evolve depending
on how we uh think about the
um you know that real-time requirement
later.
Yeah. Um yeah, can I check in uh how
does this API seem before I move on to
the high level design? Looks perfect.
All right, thanks. So
um doing uh high level design um I'm
going to try and
uh get something fairly simple working
that and um try and get it functional
and then I'll I'll try and tackle some
of those scaling considerations and and
the non-functional requirements. Um
so I will start out um
with probably our yeah auction creation.
So
let's say we have
our client over here. You know this
could be the um well probably the iOS or
or Android Instagram client. Um and then
um
I the first layer of our system I'm
going to put an API gateway um in front
of it. So this is something that's um
going to help us handle authentication,
you know, rate limiting um SSL
termination and routing to um different
services we might have in the system. Uh
so just nice to get, you know, get all
that out of the way. And then
uh for our auctions
um let's just start out with
an
auction
service
and
um okay so first thing we want to do um
is when we uh post to our API we want to
create an auction uh the client is going
to send that request and
we the it's going to go to the service.
It's going to persist that auction
to the database.
So
um
here's our primary DB. Um uh I think at
this point in the design a lot of
different um uh things would work. Um
for now um um as a placeholder I'll just
say that this will be Postgress um since
um we'll need to think about some of
that um strong consistency around around
the bids. Um yeah something like Dynamo
would work perfectly fine here. We can
configure it for strong consistency. Um
but I'm generally pretty familiar with
with Postgress. So I'll uh put that down
for now.
So,
uh, we persist an auction.
So, it's going to have an ID. Uh, it's
going to have the ID of the user that
created it. It's, um, uh,
it's going to have, um, you know, a
title.
Uh, and then it's going to well we're um
have um you know the auction item you
know since it's one to one right now we
could nest it we could have it be its
own entity um I'll just uh put it as a
as a separate entity for now
um it own ID um name um images Um
um I think uh images here we'd probably
have some blob storage um URLs for the
images.
Um images
three URL
um
uh all right. So
this looks like the main flow we'll need
to create an auction. Um
uh like you mentioned I think we can
assume there's some sort of um some sort
of feed service you know that some other
teams maintaining and um
uh that can um you know grab some of
these um auctions and and you know
populate a feed.
So
terms of number one create an auction.
We have a simple flow working. Um number
two uh user submitting bids on an
auction. Um very similar flow here. Um
send the request in um
create
bid.
Um yeah, create the bid also persisted
in our primary database. Um ID it's
associated with a particular auction. Um
and we're going to have the bid amount.
And then
um
okay, now on to uh the next set of
functional requirements. we have to
uh figure out a winner at the end of an
auction and
um yeah and then view the latest bid in
real time. So
to figure out the auction um winner uh
and yeah I missed the end uh end date
time over here. You got you got one easy
missing field on your bid too. I know
you know it is just a mistyping but look
close. Oh uh bid auction ID. Close my
window track guys. Oh yeah, no worries.
Um
oh yep. Uh the user that made the bid.
There you go. Yeah. Um okay. So, uh,
we were talking about,
okay, uh, figuring out the auction
winner at the end of an auction. So, um,
uh, again, uh, just a naive,
straightforward approach to start out
with. Um I think we can
um just uh we can start with some sort
of cron jobs that's scheduled at some
interval to look at our active auctions
um look at the bids associated with them
and then um update um the auction with
the winner. So, um we'll want a status
for our auction. So, you know, is it
active or is it complete? And we'll also
want um you know, an auction um yeah,
auction winner, which is just uh one of
the users.
Um so um yeah in this uh in this
approach cron job um
uh let's say runs every minute um scans
through our auction table finds all the
active ones.
um yeah finds the associated bids um
gets the highest one and um yeah assigns
that um user ID to the um uh auction
winner ID field and um I guess uh the
uh notification
um you know we and
um have some sort of notification
service. Yeah, that's great. Feel free
to abstract that. I don't actually care
about how the Yeah. So, the box there is
great um yeah, Apple or, you know,
Android push to the client um saying,
you know, auction one notification.
And yeah, I guess one one other thing to
note here in the uh bid submission um is
that uh when we do create the bid um
we're going to want to compare the you
know current time stamp versus the end
date time and just um yeah reject that
bid if uh it's past the end date. And uh
also
um
uh yeah um also send a
um rejected status um if it's lower than
the current um highest bid. Um but you
know we could persist that bid anyway
for for analytics if we wanted but we'd
notify the user that you know your bid
is below the highest bid. Um, so with
that, I would also just add a current
highest uh bid to the auction. Um,
okay. So now, um, quickly before you go
to that last one, I love the
consideration that that you just
mentioned by adding that line, you
introduced a potential consistency
issue. And so walk me through how you're
going to guarantee that if I were to
query your bids for a given auction that
the highest bid I got there would be the
same highest bid that's on the auction
entity.
Got it. Right. So um we want um
um since uh Postgress has acid
properties, we want to use a transaction
when we create this bid uh to make sure
that um you know the action of uh
checking that the uh checking the
submitted bid versus the current highest
bid. um creating that bid and then
updating the um that field in the
auction all happens within one
transaction. Um we can yeah set the
appropriate isolation level like
serializable
uh to make sure that you know there
can't be any race condition here.
Perfect.
All right. Um,
so, uh, getting to our last listed
functional requirement,
we want users to view, um, the latest
bid in real time. So,
uh, the guess brute force solution here
is just, you know, have the clients pull
the auction service, you know, get
auction, get auction, get auction. uh
but that is uh yeah going to introduce a
ton of load that that probably won't
scale with the number of um users and
auctions you know we have going on um
every day.
So, um,
uh, couple, um, thoughts just thinking
out loud. Um,
one thought is,
um,
uh, is thinking about caching on our
database, though,
um, I'd probably dismiss that because
our bids are going to be changing all of
the time, so cash won't really help us
here. Um,
uh, next thing I'm thinking of, um, you
know, since it's kind of, uh, a client
wanting to see a bunch of updates to
something in real time, uh, makes me,
uh, think of, uh, more of a long live
connection. Something like server events
or websockets.
Um, server sent events would probably be
the better approach here since it's a
one-directional communication.
Um,
and websockets has, you know, additional
overhead that that uh we can avoid since
we don't need it. Uh
so
um if we wanted uh these clients to uh
uh have this um yeah SSE connection,
we'd want to feed it with
um yeah with these uh bit events as they
happen. So um
so uh I'm thinking about the
uh mechanism for
distributing um these bid events let's
say on the bid you know creation flow um
uh
to
So,
I think this is potentially a good um a
good spot to use PubSub since uh we have
users that are, you know, potentially
subscribing to different um you know,
auctions. They might look for a while,
then, you know, go to something else. Um
and um and yeah, it's it's pretty
dynamic. You know, subscription,
unsubscription,
and um you know, Reddis pubsub could be
an option here. It's uh not the most
durable um in terms of its data, but
again, but we have our bids persisted um
you know, in the primary database
anyways. And um
uh we don't need to keep those bit
events around, you know, after they've
happened. So
I would
add uh Reddus
uh pub sub component here.
And so when the client just thinking
through the whole flow, when the client
uh wants to
um
see the auction bids in real time, first
thing it's going to do is um uh get uh
SSE connection going. Um
I
would make another service for this. Um
so we can scale it independently of the
create auctions and create bids. Um, so
let's call this the
um
um auction
auction
auction streaming service for lack of a
better name right now. Um and
um we'd maybe have a separate endpoint
uh where
um we want to yeah um get
um the
um for a particular auction ID
um like live let's Okay. And that's
going to establish our SSE connection.
Um,
and
so I'll put this over here. Um,
what's going to happen
is,
um, so you say, I want to subscribe to,
um, Stuart's t-shirt auction. Um, you
establish that connection. uh with the
server um which you know subscribes to
that auction topic on Reddis pub sub.
And now here in our auction service um
whenever a bid is created
um it's going to shoot that over here to
reddis pub sub. So bid
um created
uh event I guess and you know the the
topic is the auction
ID.
Um
and that way the the service can send
those bit events um back down to the
client in in real time.
Perfect. Um okay. Okay, I got some
questions for you for our last four or
so minutes here. The cron job, um, how
frequently are you running it?
Um so
uh this cron job uh probably running it
um
every
um h
um every
minute or so. I guess that that would
mean that, you know, whatever interval
we run it at is kind of the delay
between auction ending and and someone
receiving a notification.
Um,
so,
uh,
thinking about how to make that better.
Um,
how do you make it no delay or at least
as minimum of a delay as possible,
right? So,
um
[Music]
uh
I guess yeah, we want something to
trigger
when
um
when that we hit that
end time stamp on any given auction.
So huh
um
well h one thought is
um when we submit
uh a bid and it becomes um
and it becomes the like new like highest
bid. Um, we
could keep something like uh we we could
keep it in Reddus. Um, and
uh have a
uh
maybe have it expire at that auction um
end time. And I am not 100% sure, but I
think we might be able to uh listen to
the expiration on Reddus and have that
be what uh what triggers a notification.
So, it's a good thought. I'll tell you
that there there's no like CDC off of
Reddus or something that's going to give
you that trigger event. So, you could
pull Reddus, but then you you fall into
the same trap. Yeah. Yeah.
So what other mechanism do we have for
let me let me propose let me propose an
idea and then I want to kind of revolve
it and so many message cues support
some sort of like uh configurable time
that a message should be processed SQS
is one uses what it calls visibility
timeouts
okay when a new auction is created you
could put something on to the queue that
basically says check for winner at
daytime
and then the consumer will only pull it
off of course at that time and do its
job and things go from there. This saves
you the excess processing of this
running every hour all these things. So
there's kind of that simple solution.
Now many auctions, most auctions
actually don't end at a specific time.
Most auctions end when the winning bid
has been the winning bid for some amount
of time. And you can think of like an
auction house when people are throwing
up their numbers and then they kind of
wait going once, going twice, whatever,
right? And so like on eBay and things,
it's usually an hour is a common number
here. So let's say that how would you
change this so that the winning bid is a
bid that has been the leader for an
hour.
Mhm. So yeah with this SQS approach um
uh it's upon
auction
creation that um yeah we we unc this
message. Um so we'd probably upon the
creation of
um each
uh of each new highest bid I think we
can just um send NQ another message um
that says you know in time plus one hour
um uh check for winner and then even if
we send like one event for every new
highest bid
Um the logic for that can look at our
auction and just compare okay when this
message was sent the winner ID was this
um with this bid let's compare it to
what's stored here in the auction and if
it doesn't match we just kind of drop
that event and the last one is what's
going to hit the notification service.
Perfect. All right, break. That's 36 and
a half minutes. Consistent with what
you'll get in the majority of the large
fang interviews, the metas, the Googles,
etc. OpenAI, you'll get 50 minutes. So,
you'll actually get an additional 15
minutes on top of that, give or take. I
think it ends up actually being a bit
less. Um, before you hear from me, I
want to hear from you. How are you
feeling? How do you think it went? Okay.
Uh, I think I was able to follow kind of
the delivery framework, which definitely
helped keep things structured. Um I was
kind of checking the time. I think um
the functional non-functional core
entities API part went pretty all right.
Um but I think um high level design is
or rather I think I
wasn't really able to get much into the
nonfunctional like deep dives is is
where I'm thinking that you know the the
I
didn't do too great. Um, and I guess um
yeah, and missing that kind of um uh
potential Q solution.
So, if we were being overly picky, yeah,
I would agree with you. But instead, I
want to take a step back and I'll walk
through all the places where things
could be improved. But, okay, absolutely
nailed this. You should you should feel
thrilled. I'm thrilled. I was like giddy
while sitting here trying to keep a
straight face as you were moving through
this. like you you navigated through
this so damn well. Um I asked this
question a lot. I asked it of two staff
candidates yesterday. You did
significantly better than both of them.
Um the way you move through the delivery
framework, your pacing was perfect. The
minor things in terms of your
communication, your weighing of
trade-offs. In each place there's this
cycle that I used uh I I tend to
recommend candidates follow and most
candidates miss which is like the clear
articulation of the problem, the handful
of solutions, the weighing of the
trade-offs and then the clear
articulation of the solution that you're
going to go with. And you did this in
every place largely perfectly. Polling
was the best example of this. Here's my
problem that I need to solve. Polling is
a simple solution. Here are the
limitations to it. Here are some other
things that I could do and here's why
I'm going to go with this. Caching is
one option. It's bad for this reason.
landing on ultimately what is the
optimal solution here. Um so that's the
first thing completely
so far that I don't want to get ahead of
ourselves but like
with the amount of time that you have
I'm 100% confident that you could nail
staff system design interviews.
Um so I think that should be something
you're shooting for. I know that we've
talked a little bit about that already.
Um, you have like the little bit of the
atraditional recent path in terms of
your resume that might hold things up
there uh in the behavioral interview and
all of that, but on system design alone
like
yeah, you should I think you should be
shooting for staff. I I won't make any
strong statements about whether or not I
think that this itself would have been
staffed because I think I would have
moved you in different directions maybe
accordingly. But honestly, if you came
in with your resume saying staff and
this was a staff interview, I would say
higher. Like I wouldn't say no higher
here. Um, would I take a senior and like
explicitly try to uplevel them to staff?
Maybe not. Like if you had nailed this
stuff, I but honestly maybe. Like I
don't it was right like this kicked ass.
Like this really kicked ass. Thank you.
Thank you. So that's the main thing.
Everything you did in terms of delivery,
everything you did in terms of
communication was perfect. I wouldn't
change a thing. APIs are great.
Functional requirements, core entities,
all perfect. High level design, clear,
crisp, perfect. Your weighing of
trade-offs, all perfect. Literally all
perfect. Now,
let me just pause for a second.
Thoughts?
Wow. Uh, yeah. I mean, it's it's so
great to hear that feedback. Uh uh yeah,
especially since
I've been hearing your voice like on
YouTube videos non-stop for like the
last week or two. Um and um yeah, I
guess just really trying to, you know,
absorb the way you and um Stefan, you
know, do stuff in the writeups and um
and videos. I guess um uh I did think
that the first part went pretty well.
Uh, I guess I was uh I'm pleasantly
surprised that you you said it it went
really well given that I didn't feel
like I, you know, got to go into the
nonfunctionals. So, I I was thinking in
back of my head when we were ending
that, oh, it's like 34 minutes and maybe
we can talk about one non-functional to
deep dive in. Um uh so I was like hm
okay maybe I got like a you know senior
path but it's not doesn't you know
venture into staff. So in my opinion you
nailed two of those three. You got
strong consistency. You mentioned the
importance of asset properties on
postgress. I had to ask but you
mentioned the need for the transaction
in order to keep those two things
consistent. Perfect. You also went into
like some of the error handling if bids
come later than the time or lower than
another one that came in. There's some
nuance there. So, I was satisfied with
consistency. Uh, low latency. You did
this. You got PubSub. You have your
action streaming service. They're coming
in in real time with SSE. Nailed it. We
didn't end up talking too much about
scalability, but for what it's worth,
that one's a little bit less
interesting. Actually, the
non-functional requirement that I would
have added and that would be important
here would have been durability. You
mentioned it. Um, and your justification
there was true of most systems. It's
like all systems need these things.
They're not a focus, whatever. for this
system. I would argue the durability
um maybe durability ffault tolerance
depending on your lens is uniquely
relevant because what's a worst case
scenario here that somebody's bidding
for that Michael Jordan jersey they put
in a million dollar bid and we dropped
their bid that would be that'd be
horrible right then we have like some
argument about who won the who or who
won the auction somebody did and we you
know like that would be terrible and so
the way that I would rectify that and of
course you're going to need workers on
either side so Like I'm drawing this as
an abstraction.
Yeah, I' I'd have some Q here.
And so as bids are coming in, we're
putting bids on the queue. This is going
to maintain some sequential ordering of
them as well to handle the things that
you were mentioning prior. Um it'll
maybe add a tiny bit of latency, but
like instead of a queue, we're thinking
of this more as a stream anyway. So
there shouldn't be a lot of added
latency. Um but that'll handle our
durability because we'll have retention
there. If for some reason things break
over here, we can always just look back
for a view or a stream and see who
actually won, right, for debugging. So
that's something that I I certainly
would have added uh or would have been
interesting to talk about. When it comes
down here, yeah, you didn't think of a
solution that would work beyond the cron
job. So like that would hold back a bit,
but I wanted to see how you would evolve
it to that harder solution and you
nailed that. So that was great. Um
this is an interesting let me kind of
spend a moment here because this is an
interesting pattern that shows up in a
handful of system design interviews
which is that like you need to schedule
something to happen at a time. Yeah. Um
and there there are tools to do this
like the most common is these job
schedulers. And these job schedulers
usually work on top of a queue. And so
like you have your rabbit MQ has plugins
for this. SQS has visibility timeouts.
There are like bespoke solutions that
exist. They all work on top of a queue
and they're all some notion of like kind
of regularly pulling a queue at frequent
intervals with some whatever but they
end up how they achieve it I couldn't
tell you in great detail. Um but they
achieved this thing that you're looking
for and so it's good to know about. Now
another one that is a couple things that
I'll mention is that your solution to
the follow-up question was perfect. Put
them all in the queue in an hour. pull
them off and see if they're still the
winner, right? And if they are, they
won. Perfect. Another thing that you can
do, and this is like
uh there's no native support for this in
SQS or CFKA, but there are services that
exist for this. You could also build
them like Spanner is one within Google,
I think, that they use. Um, but it
allows you to like update a record in a
message queue. And so, in the case of
SQS, it's in memory, so it probably
should be able to support this. It
doesn't. CFKA is on disk. it's a little
bit harder, but we can imagine is that
like what's actually on the message
queue persisted is a pointer to some
information that's easier to change.
And so what you could imagine is that
you put a message on the queue that says
uh you know John John wins in an hour if
still leading.
And then when the new bid comes in, as
opposed to leaving this on the queue and
adding a new one, you just go find this
record in the queue for this auction ID
and update it to now Tom wins if leaving
in and then updating for the new hours,
right? So, it's like the exact same
thing, but it's this concept of you're
updating the record as opposed to adding
new records. I have no preference as to
which is better. Um, that's just an
option. And then another really cool one
which could just impress your
interviewer and just because you and I
have the time, I'm going to throw it out
there. It's also just like a really cool
technology. Have you ever heard of
temporal IO? So, I've seen it mentioned,
yeah, temporal temporal and cadence in
some of the writeups, though. I did a
brief skim and I didn't quite get it.
So, it would be great to to get your So,
temporal sick, we we use it extensively
actually at Hello Interview. It's used
at Facebook. It's used in it's used at
all the big companies nowadays. It's
kind of like became all the rage. And
temporal does two things. uh I'm going
to mention the first which is slightly
less relevant to this solution but I
think the context is necessary and then
I'll mention the part that's relevant
and so what it kind of builds itself as
is durable execution
and all that that means is that it's
essentially a job scheduler that has
built-in durability
such that you schedule some code that
needs to run this is a workflow that
code is run and if at any point it fails
temporal is able to start that job again
exactly from where it failed with that
state. Like it's sort of checkpointing
state along the way. And thus if at any
time something fails, changes, whatever,
then you just start back up that job
with the state that it was at. And so
this is super handy and useful because
for example for us, like let's say that
we pushed a bug to our payment flow. Our
payment flow is handled in temporal and
so we pushed a bug and now all of our
payments are broken and all these users
are broken. we now fix the code and we
push it and now all those jobs start
running again with that same state and
they work now and we didn't have to
change anything or rerun anything or
whatever like they were just retrying
until we fixed some right so that's
the durable execution part of temporal
is sort of like the big tech
breakthrough that they had um but now as
part of temporal you can schedule these
workflows to run at any given time
and so you can schedule a workflow for
example in our case here it could a
workflow to just check the auction
winner at whatever given date time,
right? And that workflow is just going
to sit there and then it's going to
execute at that time, run your code to
check who the winner is and then do it.
So great. So that's how that would work
there. And then in terms of the uh kind
of harder follow-up solution here,
Temporal also supports very similar to
what we just talked about with the cues.
It calls them signals,
but it's basically like you can go talk
to a workflow while it's running and
tell it to do something different.
And so like you can have a workflow
running who in its current state is I'm
going to at in an hour from now check if
John is still the winner, right? Or in
an hour I'm going to notify John that
he's the winner is what you're and then
you can send it a signal and say hold
up, things just changed. now in an hour
from now tell Stuart he's the winner and
it'll say okay let me just update my
internal state now I know what's going
on um so that's how that works a bit
more I think it's an interesting thing
just for you to know as an engineer to
use one day because it's cool and it
might be something that in some of these
solutions you can introduce and maybe
they make more sense in the context of
those answer keys now but does that make
sense like at a high enough level yeah
about it just a bit curious um with kind
of the restarting with the state. So
like if yeah the workflow is a piece of
code um you know there's you know a bug
somewhere while we're processing like
payments
um if you know if we change some of that
code and like restarts
uh I'm trying to wrap my head around how
does it like does it restart you know
kind of at the start of the function or
like what is what that state that like
carries over I guess. Yeah, good
question. So it knows basically the
actual way that it works is something
like this.
Uhhuh. And so you have this general
server. This can be hosted in the cloud.
They have like temporal cloud or you can
host it yourself, but most people have
temporal cloud in the server. And it's
doing all the fancy stuff. It's managing
state. It's checkpointing all of these
things. So like it knows I have job one,
two, three that I need to run. And so
then these workers are code that like
you manage. So these are our own servers
and our own workers and whatnot. And
they have our code on it. And so this
thing basically just says to this worker
like, "Hey, I need you to run I need you
to run job one 123." And it doesn't even
necessarily know what job 123 is. The
worker does. We wrote that code and it's
going to run that. And when we wrote the
code, the abstraction here is that all
of this code is called a workflow, but
it's broken down into a number of
activities. And you can just think of
these as like functions.
And so you have one big workflow and it
has several activities. And we
explicitly when write the code specify
those activities. And those activities
are the checkpoints. So this guy runs
the first activity and after running the
activity, it tells this guy activity one
is done. And here's the state that was
the output of activity one. Okay. And so
now it stores it that like job one 123
is on to activity two and this is its
current state. And so now this worker
got deleted for some reason. Then this
gu is just going to go tell it, hey, we
didn't finish running job 123. I know
that. And we were at activity two with
this state. So start back from there.
So now it's going to run just from
activity. Cool. Okay. Gotcha. Make
sense? Yep. Yep. So, so kind of like
kind of like a DAG and like resuming
after one piece of failure. Exactly.
Right. Yeah. And in the code, this is
literally just any, you know, you have
some workflow class and then you write
functions, but these functions are all
functions that actually like extend, you
know, some activity framework. Um, so
you just kind of wrap them in that way
and then it it handles all of the rest.
Gotcha. Cool. Cool. So in a way is it
kind of taking normal server function
code and like orchestrating it as if
they were like airflow DAGs something
like that that are exactly that's a
perfect word they call themselves
durable ex durable orchestration.
Ah okay cool. So the alternative um to a
message queue where we'd have you know
some more complicated mechanism to work
with the visibility timeouts or
whatever. We could just say like let's
put it on temporal and give it you know
a particular
um point in time to run this code run
this workflow and uh in case of changes
we can also have like you know a signal
that we specify and we can just like hit
it with an update. Yeah, exactly. So you
would basically I mean this thing itself
will be is implemented with a queue and
whatnot. So it's all like kind of
similar. Okay. But your code would just
be workflow.st start basically like at
10m
somewhere. I'm not seeing oh sorry I'm
writing it under my workflow box thing
here. Workflow. So your actual code like
when you want to kick this thing off
it's like workflow.st start. And then
this thing takes in a handful of
parameters which could be like the time,
it could be the workflow ID, that code
that you want to run, and then in our
case like the auction ID, whatever.
And so now this server has that
information probably stored in a queue.
And then it's just at that time it's
going to go kick off one of these guys
and be like, "Okay, here's the auction
ID that you're supposed to run with that
workflow's code." And then this guy's
gonna go do his thing. Okay. Sorry, I'm
still not seeing if you're writing
anything. Oh, I'm way over here to the
right. Have I been writing all this and
you're not seeing this?
Um, I see like server and then worker
worker worker, but no like text or
anything. Oh, directly under it, right?
Yeah. I wonder if I somehow got I don't
know desynchronized or something. Okay,
well, no worries. Not too important.
Okay, workflow. Start with some
parameters. Um, okay. Strong hire.
Uh
questions, thoughts, how can I what can
I help? Cool. Um I guess
h
as far as continuing to prep like uh any
Yeah, I guess anything you recommend in
general? Well, I I I still have like one
or a handful of of writeups on Hello
Interview to go through that, you know,
whole process. Um, you know, PRA
practice process. Uh, so I do plan to do
that. Um, but um yeah, any anything else
as far as system design goes you think I
should do?
Um, I would do exactly what you're
doing. whatever you were doing worked
perfectly and I would continue to do
that for the breadth and then you can
expand your breadth outside of the
writeups on Hello Interview. We have our
14 or 15 or whatever and start to like
pull some off of other resources like
the system design fight club I think
maybe is a decent one. Okay. System he
has a tendency to overengineer. So be
critical through that one. Yeah. Um but
I would continue that pattern and then
as you start to get really comfortable
there start to layer on some more depth.
And so this is where like there's a
handful of technologies that you know
are useful. These are in the key
technologies,
right? And so like you're going to need
some cache, you're going to need some uh
you know database with acid properties.
You're going to need some message Q
whatever. And so choose one for each of
those on the website. I think we have
deep dives for a couple Reddis, Kafka,
right? Yeah. And so whether it's reading
those if we have one or whether you
chose something that we don't have
Postgress or something just like go
deeper make sure you know it really well
and this is staff not senior and so this
is a place where like you can show a lot
of technical excellence you can say
something like you know I'm using Reddus
and I know that Reddus is single
threaded and I know that Reddus has
supports for things called Luis scripts
which allow us to in a single thread
execute some given code as a transaction
and so I'm going to use that in order to
update these different data structures
at the same time and that's going to
satisfy my whatever. Right? You see how
like that's sort of a a deeper novel
thing to solve a solution that then
shows the interviewer like this guy's
been there done that with some real
technical depth. Gotcha. Gotcha. So the
I guess maybe the end design or like
what's you know there on the whiteboard
might not be different but kind of the
way you're able to talk through it would
would be a lot deeper. Is that kind of
the idea? Yeah, that's exactly right.
Okay. And it may be that you don't have
the time. maybe that but whatever like
if the time permits you're going to be
able to go deeper in order to solve some
challenges or in our queuing example
here like you have depth and knowledge
of a certain queueing solution and so
you know like I know that rabbit MQ
actually has a plugin that allows me to
enable scheduled timeouts on jobs or
scheduled execution on jobs like it just
gives you more knowledge to be able to
pull out some stuff and if you know that
about for example I wouldn't choose
Rabbit MQ if I were you for some reason
I'm going down that path. If that was
your thing, um then it affords you the
ability to say something like, I'm going
to use CFKA here because I know these
things about CFKA. I don't know as much
detail about CFKA, but I know that
queuing solutions like Rabbit MQ enable
schedule job execution. So, I'm sure
CFKA probably has something similar. If
it doesn't, I'll choose some queuing
solution that does. In the interview,
you don't need to always know the
technology. You just need to know
reasonably that like something could do
something, you know? That's all you need
in the real job. It's like I know that
yeah, it would make sense for something
to support something like this, so let
me find one that does.
Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Um yeah. Uh in
terms of uh like um
yeah, the functional non-functional
stuff. Um
uh was that fine in terms of you know
asking about the general scale and then
yeah leave calculations for later and
then but I didn't get to any
calculations but was that is that okay?
Yeah it was perfect. um
like some places where I wrote a beige
flag for calculations could be
interesting but like there's only so
much time as an interview is that when
you said topic was going to be auction
ID
uh yeah this is like great and
potentially possible but while there's
no
technical limit on the number of topics
like in a cafka queue um there is a
physical limit like these are sitting on
partitions partitions themselves are
different log files on different brokers
And so there's not an infinite number of
topics that you can have. And so 10
million a day topics,
it's at that limit where it's like not
necessarily unfeasible, but it may be an
unnecessary amount of partitions in your
broker and it may need more brokers than
needed. So it's like
what you would probably end up doing
there is that your topic or your
partitions would be some hash of the
auction ID to group them together some
modulo and so I actually don't know off
the top of my head like what the math
would be in order to determine whether
or not this is too many topics but it's
one place that stood out is like that
might be right around our edge. Is that
for both pub sub and the message Q or
just one of them? Uh, this was
specifically for the pub sub. Okay, for
the pub sub we might Okay, the message
queue you're fine I guess for the bids
actually you would scale in the second
solution. In the first solution you just
have one message per auction so it's no
big deal, right? In the second one you
have more and then we scale becomes more
interesting there. Um, but I was
specifically referring to PubSub here.
And actually, I don't even know. Maybe I
should know this. Um,
I don't know if Reddit PubSub
uses topics. I don't think they do. I
think it's just partitions.
Yeah, they don't use topics. That's
That's just a CFKA and says active MQ
thing. Okay. They use channel the
channel. Okay. So analogous, but and
honestly, who who would care? Nobody's
going to hold this against you, but
and it's in memory, so maybe there is
infinite. I don't know. But it's one
number that stood out as a little
questionable to me, and I would probably
research it after. Gotcha. Um, yeah.